---
layout: posts
title:  "Altimeter & Toroidal Propellers"
tagline: ""
date:   2024-10-19 00:00:00 +0000
tags: [Arduino & Circuitry, CAD]
author_profile: true
author: Ryan Christ
categories: project
highlight_home: true
header:
  overlay_image: "/assets/images/SkydioAlt.jpeg"
  teaser: "/assets/images/DroneAlt.jpg"
  caption: "Photo credit: [O3ST: **Julian Dale**](https://www.o3st.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Skydio2crop-1536x948.jpeg)"
description: Add Description
---

## Context
I am apart of Duke University - Bass Connections (a small group research experience for undergraduates, graduates, and faculty members). The project team I am a part of is, "Using drones to Monitor the Health of Endangered Elephants in Zambia". As the only engineering student in my team I am tasked with the majority of technical questions. 
## Altimeter
### Concern
One of the concerns my team and I had identified involved the impercision on drone altimeters. Altimeter percision is crutial to identify the height of the elephants. As the drone flys over the elephant we should be able to notice a change in altimeter height, which will later be used to interpret mody 
### Content
To address this issue, I have been working with Julian Dale, a Duke Project Engineer and Director of O3ST, to redesign their existing altimeter system. This includes reducing the overall size and production costs of their current model. So far I have switched the larger Grove GPS with a much more compact GP1818MK. I have also devloped support for a new LW20 rangefinder for higher accuracy at greater altitudes. This altimeter works right over our I2C protcol and enhances the drone's altitude tracking without disrupting the overall system. 

In addition to the altimeter update, I introduced a new feature that logs vertical altitude in the system's data logs. This was achieved by using the gravitational acceleration readings from the IMU by compensating for the drone's tilt angle. Also, I have updated log filenames with time/date as opposed to the old method of sequential numbering.

Additional improvments I am currently working on include:
* Incorporating a cheaper IMU module within the design with an enable and disable option in code
* Include a code switch to log data every 1 sec or hot shoe trigger logging at 15Hz shutter speed
* Incorporating a smaller Arduino in our desgin

The new GPS module and the Seeed Studio XIAO SAMD21 Arduino board are positioned at the top of the first image. The current setup is shown on a breadboard, where I am experimenting with the configuration and tinkering with the code.

<div id="nanogallery2"></div>
<script>
  $("#nanogallery2").nanogallery2({
  // ### gallery settings ###
  thumbnailHeight:  150,
  thumbnailWidth:   150,
  itemsBaseURL:     '/assets/images/',

  // ### gallery content ###
  items: [
      { src: 'AltimeterCircuit.jpg', srct: 'AltimeterCircuit.jpg' },
      { src: 'AltWiring.png', srct: 'AltWiring.png' },
      { src: 'AltimeterCode1.png', srct: 'AltimeterCode1.png' },
      { src: 'SkydioAlt.jpeg', srct: 'SkydioAlt.jpeg' },
      { src: 'DroneAlt.jpg', srct: 'DroneAlt.jpg' },

  ]
});
</script>


## Toroidal Propellers
### Concern
A concern that my team and I have identified relates to the acoustic emissions of drones, particularly on the comparison of the sound emmision of UAVs to a known source of annoyance to elephants: honeybees. Research conducted by a Duke University team during their visit to Wonga Wongue National Park in Gabon highlighted significant similarities between drone sounds and bee frequencies, especially at higher frequency ranges of 2-5 kHz. The study concluded that one of the drones we plan on using for capturing critical body condition photos, the DJI Phantom, emitted frequencies that caused discomfort to elephants, primarily due to its similarity to bee sounds.

### Content
To address this issue, we are exploring the use of toroidal propellers. We were inspired by the findings at MIT Lincoln Labratory that suggest toroidal propellers “closed-form structure minimizes the drag effects created by swirling air tunnels” at the blade tips. This design feature could effectively reduce the propeller's acoustic signature especially in the 2-5 kHz range (one of the most prominent frequency ranges of sound emanated by bees), minimizing the potential negative impact on the elephants.

Our approach includes performing FEA and CFD design analysis on various toroidal propeller designs. We will then print the propellers in partnership Duke Bluesmith Lab beginning on a Formlabs Form 3 SLA printer then to a Stratasys J750 Digital Anatomy for a much more refined product. This will be followed by constructing a thrust test including a DJI Phantom 4 motor and speed controller, using standard DJI propellers RPM range as baseline. Lastly, we will be measuring acoustic levels to confirm suspected noise reduction and deloying them on our drones when we go back to Zambia in May of 2025. Photos will be updated as progress is made. Currently, we are at the phase of analyzing toroidal propeller designs. Below is a potential design for the DJI Mavic Mini.

<div id="nanogallery1"></div>
<script>
  $("#nanogallery1").nanogallery2({
  // ### gallery settings ###
  thumbnailHeight:  150,
  thumbnailWidth:   150,
  itemsBaseURL:     '/assets/images/',

  // ### gallery content ###
  items: [
      { src: 'ToroidalPropsMini.png', srct: 'ToroidalPropsMini.png' },
  ]
});
</script>