---
layout: posts
title:  "Drone Noise Analysis"
tagline: ""
date:   2024-04-01 00:00:00 +0000
tags: [Acoustics]
author_profile: true
author: Ryan Christ
categories: project
highlight_home: true
header:
  overlay_image: 
  teaser: "/assets/images/DroneFlights2.JPG"
description: Add Description
---

## Context
I am part of the Duke University Bass Connections program, a collaborative research initiative involving undergraduates, graduates, and faculty. My project team, "Using Drones to Monitor the Health of Endangered Elephants in Zambia," focuses on leveraging drones for elephant body condition assessments. As the only engineering student on the team, I handle most of the technical aspects of the project.

## Concern
To assess the impact of drone noise on wildlife, my team and I are conducting flight tests to determine the optimal altitude and speed for monitoring elephants while minimizing disturbance. The team is primarily concerned with the DJI Phantom 4 and DJI Mavic 3 Pro, as these drones are currently used in Zambia for elephant body condition monitoring. Preliminary analysis of our recordings in Raven Lite has allowed us to visualize noise levels across different flight parameters.

## Content
For vertical flight tests, we fly at altitudes ranging from 120m down to 10m, stopping every 5m for 30 seconds before descending at 2m/s. For horizontal flights, we operate at 15m, 30m, and 45m, with speeds of 2, 4, and 6 m/s. A microphone positioned at elephant ear height records drone noise as the UAV approaches.

Currently, I am processing the microphone’s 1/3 octave band text files in Python. I use a script that segments the audio based on flight timestamps, applies filtering, and computes power spectral density to quantify noise levels at each altitude. This analysis will help us determine the optimal flight parameters that balance proximity for body conditioning assessments while reducing disturbance.

While we have only conducted a few flights so far, we have many more planned throughout March and April.

<div id="nanogallery2"></div>
<script>
  $("#nanogallery2").nanogallery2({
  // ### gallery settings ###
  thumbnailHeight:  150,
  thumbnailWidth:   150,
  itemsBaseURL:     '/assets/images/',

  // ### gallery content ###
  items: [
      { src: 'SampleTxtFile.png', srct: 'SampleTxtFile.png' },
      { src: 'DroneData11-7.png', srct: 'DroneData11-7.png' },
      { src: 'DroneFlights1.JPG', srct: 'DroneFlights1.JPG' },
      { src: 'DroneFlights2.JPG', srct: 'DroneFlights2.JPG' },

  ]
});
</script>