---
layout: posts
title:  "Altimeter & Toroidal Propellers"
tagline: ""
date:   2024-10-19 00:00:00 +0000
tags: [Acoustics, Arduino & Circuitry, CAD]
author_profile: true
author: Ryan Christ
categories: project
highlight_home: true
header:
  overlay_image: "/assets/images/SkydioAlt.jpeg"
  teaser: "/assets/images/DroneAlt.jpg"
  caption: "Photo credit: [O3ST: **Julian Dale**](https://www.o3st.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Skydio2crop-1536x948.jpeg)"
description: Add Description
---
# Altimeter
## Context
One of the concerns my team and I identified involved the imprecision of drone altimeters. Altimeter precision is crucial for accurately identifying the height of elephants. As the drone flies over an elephant, we should be able to detect a change in altimeter height, which will later be used for more accurate body conditioning.

## Content
To address this issue, I have been working with Julian Dale, a Duke Project Engineer and Director of O3ST, to redesign their existing altimeter system. This includes reducing the overall size and production costs of their current model. I have switched the larger Grove GPS with a much more compact GP1818MK. I have also developed support for a new LW20 rangefinder for higher accuracy at greater altitudes. This altimeter works right over our I2C protocol and enhances the drone's altitude tracking without disrupting the overall system.

In addition to the altimeter update, I introduced a new feature that logs vertical altitude in the system's data logs. This was achieved by using the gravitational acceleration readings from the IMU while compensating for the drone's tilt angle. However, during testing, we noticed variations in the tilt angle reading. When going through extreme movements while attached to the gimbal, the log file was recording tilt angles of up to 14 degrees. However, the output from the IMU on the gimbal was only fluctuating by ~0.02 degrees, and it was confirmed visually that it was not reaching a 14-degree tilt angle. I observed that acceleration values from the drone were influencing the tilt calculation, likely due to vibrations. To solve this issue, I implemented a 1D Kalman Filter, combining acceleration trigonometry with gyroscope integration to eliminate noise.

I also updated log filenames to use time/date stamps instead of the old sequential numbering method.

Additional improvements I am currently working on include:

* Adding a code switch to log data every 1 sec or via hot shoe trigger logging at a 15Hz shutter speed
* Incorporating a smaller Arduino in our design
* Adding a cheaper IMU module with an enable/disable option in the code
<div id="nanogallery2"></div>
<script>
  $("#nanogallery2").nanogallery2({
  // ### gallery settings ###
  thumbnailHeight:  150,
  thumbnailWidth:   150,
  itemsBaseURL:     '/assets/images/',

  // ### gallery content ###
  items: [
      { src: 'O3STAltimeter.jpg', srct: 'O3STAltimeter.jpg' },
      { src: 'AltWiring.png', srct: 'AltWiring.png' },
      { src: 'AltimeterCode1.png', srct: 'AltimeterCode1.png' },
      { src: 'SkydioAlt.jpeg', srct: 'SkydioAlt.jpeg' },
      { src: 'DroneAlt.jpg', srct: 'DroneAlt.jpg' },

  ]
});
</script>
<br>
  
# Toroidal Propellers
## Context
A concern that my team and I have identified relates to the acoustic emissions of drones, particularly in comparing the sound emission of UAVs to a known source of annoyance to elephants: honeybees. Research conducted by a Duke University team during their visit to Wonga Wongué National Park in Gabon highlighted significant similarities between drone sounds and bee frequencies, especially in the higher frequency range of 2-5 kHz. The study concluded that one of the drones we plan to use for capturing critical body condition photos, the DJI Phantom, emitted frequencies that caused discomfort to elephants, primarily due to its similarity to bee sounds.

## Content
To address this issue, we are exploring the use of toroidal propellers. We were inspired by findings from MIT Lincoln Laboratory, which suggest that toroidal propellers’ “closed-form structure minimizes the drag effects created by swirling air tunnels” at the blade tips. This design feature could effectively reduce the propeller's acoustic signature, especially in the 2-5 kHz range (one of the most prominent frequency ranges of sound emitted by bees), minimizing the potential negative impact on elephants.

Our approach includes performing FEA and CFD design analysis on various toroidal propeller designs. We will then print the propellers in partnership with Duke Bluesmith Lab, starting with a Formlabs Form 3 SLA printer and later moving to a Stratasys J750 Digital Anatomy for a more refined product. This will be followed by constructing a thrust test using a DJI Phantom 4 motor and speed controller, with the standard DJI propellers’ RPM range as a baseline. Lastly, we will measure acoustic levels to confirm suspected noise reduction and deploy the propellers on our drones when we return to Zambia in May 2025.

Photos will be updated as progress is made. Currently, we are in the phase of analyzing toroidal propeller designs. Below is a potential design for the DJI Mavic Mini.

<div id="nanogallery1"></div>
<script>
  $("#nanogallery1").nanogallery2({
  // ### gallery settings ###
  thumbnailHeight:  150,
  thumbnailWidth:   150,
  itemsBaseURL:     '/assets/images/',

  // ### gallery content ###
  items: [
      { src: 'ToroidalPropsMini.png', srct: 'ToroidalPropsMini.png' },
  ]
});
</script>