---
layout: posts
title:  "Centrifugal Pump Support System"
tagline: ""
date:   2025-04-25 00:00:00 +0000
tags: [CAD, Mechanical Design]
author_profile: true
author: Ryan Christ
categories: project
highlight_home: true
header:
  overlay_image:
  teaser: "/assets/images/CADPump.png"
description: Structural support platform designed, analyzed, and prototyped for a centrifugal pump under loading and deflection constraints.
---

## Context
As part of Duke University’s ME 321: Mechanical Engineering Analysis for Design, our team was tasked with designing a modular, corrosion resistant structural support platform for a centrifugal pump operating under realistic loading and environmental conditions.

## Content
The design needed to support a belt driven 12.5 lb pump operating at 150 GPM with a 60 ft head and 65% efficiency, have a constrained tip deflection to under 3 mm and required a minimum factor of safety of 1.5, all within a $150 material budget.

Our team applied equilibrium and stress analysis to find governing equations and used Python to model the system. Critical locations were identified using stress concentration factors, and we used von Mises criteria to calculate safety margins. We ran FEA in SolidWorks to validate and iterate our solution. Ultimately, we decided on a lightweight frame design using 6061/6063 aluminum I-beams and rectangular tubing. All joints were removable and the assembly prioritized manufacturability, only requiring drilling and reaming. The physical prototype met design specs, with a tip deflection of ~2.5 mm under load and no structural failure.

This project demonstrated the full mechanical design process, from load modeling and simulation to hands on fabrication and testing. To review our final report [click here](https://ryanjchrist.github.io/ME_Third_Year_Design/).

<div id="nanogallery2"></div>
<script>
  $("#nanogallery2").nanogallery2({
  // ### gallery settings ###
  thumbnailHeight:  150,
  thumbnailWidth:   150,
  itemsBaseURL:     '/assets/images/',
  items: [
    { src: 'SetUp.png', srct: 'SetUp.png' },
    { src: 'CADPump.png', srct: 'CADPump.png' },
    { src: 'FEAplot.png', srct: 'FEAplot.png' },
  ]
});
</script>
